MIT COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, KOTHRUD,

LIST OF ASSIGNMENTS
PUNE








Department: Computer Engineering


Academic Year: 2017-18
Semester: I


Subject: OOP Lab
Class: SE


List of Assignments





Sr.
Title of Assignment


No.





Compulsory Assignment





1.
Install, Configure 64 bit Linux Operating Systems, study basic architecture,


memory system, and learn basic administration






A)
Group A Assignments (Any 5)


2.
Write a C++ program create a calculator for an arithmetic operator (+, -, *,


/). The program should take two operands from user and performs the opera-


tion on those two operands depending upon the operator entered by user.


Use a switch statement to select the operation. Finally, display the result.


Some sample interaction with the program might look like this:


Enter first number, operator, second number: 10 / 3



Answer = 3.333333



Do another (y/n)? y



Enter first number, operator, second number: 12 + 100


Answer = 112



Do another (y/n)? n


3.
Implement a class Complex which represents the Complex Number data


type. Implement the following operations:



1. Constructor (including a default constructor which creates the complex


number 0+0i).



2. Overloaded operator+ to add two complex numbers.


3. Overloaded operator* to multiply two complex numbers.


4. Overloaded << and >> to print and read Complex Numbers.

4.
Implement a class Quadratic that represents degree two polynomials i.e.,


polynomials of type ax2+bx+c. The class will require three data members


corresponding to a, b and c. Implement the following operations:


1. A constructor (including a default constructor which creates the 0 poly-


nomial).



2. Overloaded operator+ to add two polynomials of degree 2.


3. Overloaded << and >> to print and read polynomials. To do this, you will


need to decide what you want your input and output format to look like.


4. A function eval that computes the value of a polynomial for a given value


of x.



5. A function that computes the two solutions of the equation ax2+bx+c=0.

5.
Create a class Rational Number (fractions) with the following capabilities:


a) Create a constructor that prevents a 0 denominator in a fraction, reduces


or simplifies fractions that are not in reduced form and avoids negative de-


b) Overload the addition, subtraction, multiplication and division operators



for this class.
c) Overload the relational and equality operators for this class.


6.
Develop an object oriented program in C++ to create a database of student information system containing the following information: Name, Roll num- ber, Class, division, Date of Birth, Blood group, Contact address, telephone
number, driving licence no. etc Construct the database with suitable member
functions for initializing and destroying the data viz constructor, default con-
structor, Copy constructor, destructor, static member functions, friend class,
this pointer, inline code and dynamic memory allocation operators-new and
delete.

7.
A book shop maintains the inventory of books that are being sold at the
shop. The list includes details such as author, title, price, publisher and stock
position. Whenever a customer wants a book, the sales person inputs the title
and author and the system searches the list and displays whether it is availa-
ble or not. If it is not, an appropriate message is displayed. If it is, then the
system displays the book details and requests for the number of copies re-
quired. If the requested copies book details and requests for the number of
copies required. If the requested copies are available, the total cost of the re-
quested copies is displayed; otherwise the message ―Required copies not in
stock‖ is displayed. Design a system using a class called books with suitable
member functions and Constructors. Use new operator in constructors to al-
locate memory space required. Implement C++ program for the system

8.
Create a class template to represent a generic vector. Include following member functions:
    • To create the vector.
    • To modify the value of a given element

    • To multiply by a scalar value
    • To display the vector in the form (10,20,30,…)

9.
Imagine a publishing company which does marketing for book and audio-
cassette versions. Create a class publication that stores the title (a string) and
price (type float) of a publication. From this class derive two classes: book,
which adds a page count (type int), and tape, which adds a playing time in
minutes (type float).
Write a program that instantiates the book and tape classes, allows user to
enter data and displays the data members. If an exception is caught, replace
 all the data member values with zero values.

10.
Create employee bio-data using following classes i) Personal record
ii))Professional record iii) Academic record Assume appropriate data mem-
bers and member function to accept required data & print bio-data. Create
bio-data using multiple inheritance using C++.

11.
Write a function in C++ to count and display the number of lines not starting All Batches with alphabet 'A' present in a text file "STORY.TXT"

Example:
If the file "STORY.TXT" contains the following lines 
The roses are red
A girl is playing there
There is a playground
An aero plane is in the sky
Numbers are not allowed in the password
The function should display the output as 3

